blog: Deploying FlowFuse with Docker on the Ubuntu server (#2300)
FlowFuse/website: src/blog/2024/07/deploying-flowfuse-with-docker.md

---
title: Deploying FlowFuse with Docker on an Ubuntu server
subtitle: Step-by-step guide on how to deploy FlowFuse with Docker on Ubuntu server
description: Learn to deploy the FlowFuse on your Ubuntu server with Docker, from domain setup to running your app with email, SSL configurations.

> date: 2024-07-15

Reviewer: @sumitshinde-84 was it your plan to publish it next week?

Author: feel free to update it !

Author: Yes, I usually update dates once they receive at least one approval

---

> title: Deploying FlowFuse with Docker on the Ubuntu server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Deploying FlowFuse with Docker on an Ubuntu server
```

> subtitle: Step-by-step guide on how to Deploy FlowFuse with FlowFuse with Docker on Ubuntu server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
subtitle: Step-by-step guide on how to deploy FlowFuse with Docker on Ubuntu server
```

description: Learn to deploy the FlowFuse on your Ubuntu server with Docker, from domain setup to running your app with email, SSL configurations.
date: 2024-07-08
authors: ["sumit-shinde"]

> image:

Reviewer 2: image?

<!--more-->

## What is Docker?

[Docker](https://docs.docker.com/guides/docker-concepts/the-basics/what-is-an-image/) is an open-source platform that simplifies how applications are deployed, scaled, and managed through containerization. It enables you to package all components required by your project such as code, libraries, and dependencies into a single, portable unit known as a [Docker container](https://docs.docker.com/guides/docker-concepts/the-basics/what-is-a-container/). These containers ensure consistency in application environments and ease deployment by ensuring that applications run predictably across different computing environments, whether on a developer's laptop, a server, or a cloud platform.

## Deploying FlowFuse on Ubuntu server with Docker

Before proceeding, ensure you have your domain and a server with Ubuntu installed. If your server has Ubuntu installed without a GUI, you can connect to it from your computer using [SSH](https://itsfoss.com/set-up-ssh-ubuntu/), so that you can run commands from your local computer on the server.

> ### Installing Docker on the Ubuntu server.

Reviewer 2: Should we have documentation on our website on how to install other company's products?  Shouldn't this be a reference?

Reviewer 2: This is in reference to Docker.

Author: Removed that section and added a link to their docs.

1. Access the terminal on your Ubuntu server and execute the following commands:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

```bash
sudo apt-get install ca-certificates curl
```

```bash
sudo install -m 0755 -d /etc/apt/keyrings
```

```bash
sudo curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg -o /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
```

```bash
sudo chmod a+r /etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc
```

```bash
echo \
 "deb [arch=$(dpkg --print-architecture) signed-by=/etc/apt/keyrings/docker.asc] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu \
 $(. /etc/os-release && echo "$VERSION_CODENAME") stable" | \
 sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/docker.list > /dev/null
```

```bash
sudo apt-get update
```

```bash
 sudo apt-get install docker-ce docker-ce-cli containerd.io docker-buildx-plugin docker-compose-plugin
```

```bash
sudo docker run hello-world
```

> Now, if you see the result similar to the below image it means the docker is installed successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If installed correctly, you should see results similar to the image below.
```

 ```bash
    sed -i 's/example.com/<replace-with-your-domain-name>/g' ./etc/flowforge.yml
 ```

5. Next, update the Docker Compose configuration file `docker-compose.yml` with your domain:

 ```bash
    sed -i 's/example.com/<replace-with-your-domain-name>/g' ./docker-compose.yml
 ```

!["Screenshot the terminal showing the updates made in docker-compose.yml file"](./images/docker-compose-update.png "Screenshot the terminal showing the updates made in docker-compose.yml file")

!["Screenshot the terminal showing the updates made in 'docker-compose.yml' file"](./images/docker-compose-update-2.png "Screenshot the terminal showing the updates made in 'docker-compose.yml' file")

For your understanding, We updated the `flowforge.yml` file to include our domain in the following fields: `domain`, `base_url`, and `broker.public_url`. These changes ensure that instance names on Docker platforms prepend your domain, provide the correct URL to access the platform, and specify the URL for devices to connect to the broker if different from `broker.url`.

Additionally, in the docker-compose.yml file, we adjusted the `VIRTUAL_HOST` to point to our domain.

### Securing Communication with SSL

> Securing communication with [SSL (Secure Sockets Layer)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJJmoDZ3il8) is crucial for protecting data transmitted between your users and the server. Adding SSL requires obtaining a certificate from a trusted certificate authority (CA) and configuring your server to use this certificate. Configuring SSL manually can be a headache, so we have provided a setup that you just need to enable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Securing communication with [SSL (Secure Sockets Layer)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SJJmoDZ3il8) is crucial for protecting data transmitted between your users and the server. Adding SSL requires obtaining a certificate from a trusted certificate authority (CA) and configuring your server to use this certificate. Configuring SSL manually can be a headache, so we have provided a setup you need to enable.
```
